Very preliminary thoughts on finances and production (Gowder).

Most of arXiv's [costs](https://confluence.cornell.edu/download/attachments/127116484/arXiv+Business+Model.pdf) are in various kinds of bureaucracy--- travel, tech support people, etc. Even for a repository on the scale of a million papers and many million downloads, run by a legacy institution, total technical costs are on the order of $50,000/year for servers and such, plus $200,000 for "programming and system maintenance." 

Such a model is unlikely to be viable for a new scholarly sharing network in the absence of strong institutional backing. An alternative to consider is a dispersed open-source style model characterized by [continuous deployment](http://timothyfitz.com/2009/02/08/continuous-deployment/).  Such a model begins with a very basic application, possibly organized as readily composible and replacable [microservices](http://blog.cognitect.com/blog/2016/3/31/the-new-normal-the-art-of-war-maneuverability-and-microservices) by a handful of initial committed participants, meant to serve a small initial pool of users, later to be developed by a wider community of open-source contributors. Anticipating a user community that starts small and increases, technical infrastructure can be provided by scalable cloud hosting services such as AWS and Heroku, which for small user bases are of negligible cost and easily funded by donations from the initial group of committed participants. (Major tech companies such as [Google](https://www.google.com/nonprofits/products/) and [Amazon](https://aws.amazon.com/government-education/nonprofits/) also have systematic donation programs that provide a substantial amount of free infrastructure to nonprofits.)

The advantage of such a model is that it reduces two problems---how to recruit participants to the project, and where to find the initial funding---to one. A scholarly open knowledge network that is successful at recruiting interest from the community at large is one that is also likely to be able to recruit developers and others to build and scale features to serve such a community, as well as recruit individual or institutional donors to finance that expansion (and aquire the things that arXiv spends so much money on, like office space and tech support personnel). A network that is unable to recruit developers and donors is also likely to be one that is unable to recruit a user base. 

On the dispersed open-source model, such a network will either succeed, or it will fail completely and harmlessly, without wasting a substantial amount of time and money on infrastructure without the users to adopt it. 

